
%!target: xhtml
%!options: -o index.html -H
%!postproc: WINDOW_TITLE "Main Page"
%!postproc: MAIN_TITLE "RECENT UPDATES"
%!include(xhtml): ''pre_main_content.html''

== Updates 3/27/2007 ==
- Updated feeding grounds listing to reflect the new system


[Explicit Changes Listing recent_updates/3_27_2007.txt]


== Updates 12/15/2006 ==
- Officially deprecated our PC ghoul rules. We don't have any right now.
- Further clarification and awesome about blood bonds.
- In character info page for things people should have readily available.


[Explicit Changes Listing recent_updates/12_15_2006.txt]


== Updates 12/12/2006 ==
- Added the first part of my [Guide to Virtues, Willpower, and Blood guide_to_virtues_willpower_and_blood.html]. It currently only contains descriptions and rules for blood bonds.
- Added some clarifying language to Aegis and Vanish. Nothing is different, I think it's just described better this way.


[Explicit Changes Listing recent_updates/12_12_2006.txt]


== Updates 11/28/2006 3 ==
- Reversed Auspex vs. Obfuscate thing. It's back to comparing levels of the discipline using the fivesy rule.
- Clarified how traits may be permanently expended for Aegis.


[Explicit Changes Listing recent_updates/11_28_2006_3.txt]


== Updates 11/28/2006 2 ==
- Clarifications and additions to Mentor, Allies, Generation, and Retainers section of character creation.
- Change in rollover experience policy
- Added a downtimes guide
- Added specific rules for Heightened Senses. Ties are now resolved using traits plus discipline levels rather than just discipline levels.


[Explicit Changes Listing recent_updates/11_28_2006_2.txt]


== Updates 11/28/2006 ==
- Updates to house rules, mostly for clarifications
- Updated narrator and storyteller staff listings
- Updated mailing lists page


[Explicit Changes Listing recent_updates/11_28_2006.txt]


%!include(xhtml): ''post_main_content.html''
