
== Animalism ==
: Feral Whispers
As per LotN: R. Must RP animal noise. This power can be used to communicate with werewolves in Lupus form, but not Crinos.
: Beckoning
As per LotN: R. Must RP animal noise. Cannot be used through electronic means.
: Quell the Beast
As per LotN:R. This power will pull a werewolf from frenzy and also removes their ability to spend Rage. If used on a werewolf not in frenzy, it has all of the normal effects as well as removing their ability to spend Rage.

It should be noted that Quell the Beast only directly affects a character's ability to temporarily expend Willpower traits.

Quell may not be used as a carrier attack.
: Subsume the Spirit
As per LotN:R. No discipline that requires the expenditure of blood may be used while possessing an animal, and all requirements of the discipline(s) carried over must be met. If possessing an animal ghoul, it is possible to carry disciplines that require blood. All requirements for using the disciplines must also be met by the possessed animal (example: You cannot issue commands with the first level of Dominate while possessing a cat. They can't speak.)
: Drawing out the Beast
As per LotN:R. Remember that you must make this challenge in lieu of a frenzy test. If the victim is pulled from frenzy without leaving your sight, your Beast will return on its own. The Beast returns upon the destruction of the victim or at the end of the night. While the victim has an additional Beast, they suffer from the flaw //Short Fuse//.
