
== Auspex ==
: Heightened Senses
As per LotN:R, except for calculating ties when attempting to pierce Obfuscate. Ties will be calculated by comparing the relative total discipline levels of the two characters.

For example, we have the Toreador Carla with Auspex: Telepathy. She is using Heightened Senses when the Malkavian Bigglesby walks by using Obfuscate: Unseen Presence. He has up to Obfuscate: Cloak the Gathering. She initiates a mental challenge and the two tie. Bigglesby has a greater mastery of Obfuscate than Carla does of Auspex, so he wins. If, for instance, Bigglesby had only known Obfuscate: Vanish from the Mind's Eye, then the two would have compared mental traits.

It should be noted that any loud sound or bright flash only destroys your ability to continue using Heightened Senses. You may still see and hear normally, but must spend a Willpower point to prevent being dazed for a round. You may not reactivate Heightened Senses until the next scene or you have spent blood to heal the damage to your sense organ.
: Aura Perception
As per LotN:R. Reminder: This is a Static Challenge and has no defensive retest aside from Luck. The defender does not bid a trait. In the event of a failed challenge, the character cannot detect deception, creature type, etc. If you fail a creature type challenge, the aura appears human. If you're searching for deception, magic or diablerie, you find none on a failed challenge. If you're searching for mood and fail, the mood is indeterminable.
: Spirit's Touch
As per LotN:R. Use of this discipline ALWAYS requires an ST or Narrator. Persons employing Obfuscate powers will not leave any impression, but they do not "steal" or wipe clean any previous impressions. It is as if they had not even touched the item. This effect lasts for as long as the person remains in Obfuscate.
: Telepathy
As per LotN:R. The initial telepathic contact must be made while in line of sight. After contact is established, the telepathically connected individuals may move freely without breaking the telepathy. Malkavians have the option of bidding their derangement in defense against a telepathy challenge in lieu of a trait. The telepathic character suffers the bid derangement for the remainder of the night if she loses the challenge. When probing for deeper thoughts, all characters may bid their derangements. The deeper you go into the mind of a madman, the more likely you are to return with something unexpected. This is a static challenge where the aggressor avoids gaining a derangement on a win or a tie. When going from scene to scene, an out of character announcement must be made if you are telepathically connected to another character.
: Psychic Projection
As per LotN:R. No discipline requiring the expenditure of blood may be used while psychically projected. Any other requirements for disciplines carried over must be met.
