
== Obfuscate ==
The Kindred using Obfuscate is considered the aggressor in the challenge.

: Cloak of Shadows
As per LotN:R. Fifty percent of your body must be hidden. Stop signposts and thin, growing trees do not provide the cover required to use this discipline.
: Unseen Presence
As per LotN:R. You must be actively searching for hidden individuals while using Auspex: Heightened Senses (or a similar power) in order to sense someone using this power. Acute Sense merits will not pierce Obfuscate.
: Mask of 1000 Faces
As per LotN:R. When you create your Mask, you may freely replace social traits on a one for one basis to determine the characteristics of your Mask. This can only be done when the Mask is created and never again. These social traits become the permanent social traits of your mask. Blood may also be spent to add Appearance based Social traits to your mask at the cost of one blood per Social trait, not to exceed your generational limit. This blood must be spent every time the mask is used, even if it is your "permanent" mask. When masking as a specific individual, a badge must be worn to designate this. Given a distinct role-play reason when masking as a specific individual, it is possible to have sufficient reason to doubt the validity of the mask. When attempting to mask as another individual, you cannot add another trait once the mask is in place. You must begin again, including the expenditure of blood.
: Vanish From Mind's Eye
As per LotN:R.

The use of this discipline is not counted as a Mental Action during combat, but the mental tests are made during the mental round. This means that if another character is not an onlooker during the mental round, the activation of the power is implicitly successful against them. Vanish From the Mind's Eye activates at the end of the round against everybody you were successful against.

"Fading Away" should be justified appropriately for the onlookers. Considering how Obfuscate is a mental affect that causes you to ignore something, it can easily be seen as meta-gaming to jump to the correct conclusion about where somebody that used this power just went. You will ignore their presence and see nothing strange about it even if you're staring straight into them.

When using electronics to record a person that is Vanished, you will ignore the image of the person on the camera just as you would if you were looking at them. You will not move the camera around or take any action that alerts others to the fact that you're being affected by Vanish. Those receiving remote feeds who are outside of teh Vanisher's presence will be able to see them, but will not be able to convince anybody in their presence that they are there. This sort of information does not constitute "interaction with the environment," so the Vanisher doesn't need to reactivate the power no matter how many times the person to your left tells you, "He's right there!!!"

: Cloak the Gathering
As per LotN:R. You must remain visible to the originator of the cloak. Subjects must be willing to be cloaked, including any staked individuals. Torpored individuals and corpses are the exception to this rule.
